So now that I've outlined
what a factory method is
and given you a couple of
examples of factory methods,
supply async and run
async, let's take a look
and see how we could
actually apply a factory
method in practice.
And, of course, what
we're going to apply here
will be the supply async method.
So this is basically
the same example
that we saw before except
now rather than using
the complete method and
using an explicit thread,
we're going to use
supply async in order
to be able to
initiate computations
that run in the background
and multiply big fractions.
So when we call
supply async, that
will arrange to execute
a supplier lambda
in the common fork-join
pool because we don't
give an explicit pool here.
And here we define
a supplier lambda
that multiplies two
big fractions together.
These computations,
the one that's
running in the background in
the pool and anything that
occurs after the call to supply
async, can run concurrently.
As before, we use join to block
until the result is complete,
and then we go ahead and
get the mixed string.
One of the nice things about
using completable futures
is we don't have
to know anything
about how to create and
start a Java thread.
So Java thread management
is completely removed.
We also don't have to create
a separate Java thread,
but instead we can leverage
existing threads that
occur in the context of
the common fork-join pool
in this particular example.
Moreover, we also don't
need to complete anything.
The way in which this works
is that the completable future
that we get back
from supply async
will automatically be triggered
when the asynchronous operation
running in the
background, namely
the supplier lambda we gave the
supply async, finishes running.
So we don't need to complete
this future explicitly
because supply async,
the factory method,
actually return the
complete future that we're
going to join with.
However, we still have
this wacky problem
of having to call
join explicitly.
And so as we get
further along, we
start talking about other
methods, particularly
the completion stage methods.
We'll see how we can get
rid of this dependency
on calling join.